#summary When to use the Web-based or command-line interface

=When should I use the Web-based or command-line interface?=

Generally speaking, you will want to use the command-line interface when either 1) you have many datasets to convert to RDF, or 2) one or more of your datasets are very large.

In the first case (you have many datasets to convert), you can use simple shell scripts to batch process them with the command-line Triplifier.  This is of course much more time-efficient than manually running each of them through the Web-based interface.

In the second case (you have one or more very large datasets), really big datasets can sometimes take a very long time to process through the Web-based interface.  In some cases, your browser connection might simply time out before any RDF data is returned.

But what does "very large" mean?  The answer to this question is heavily dependent upon the input data format and complexity.  For single-table Darwin Core-Archives (DwC-As), we have found that datasets with tens of thousands of records, up to around 100,000 records or so, can usually be processed in a reasonable amount of time.  Processing single-table DwC-As requires first "re-normalizing" the data to move the implicit DwC class instances into separate tables and eliminate instance-level data redundancies.  This is computationally intensive, so for other input formats that do not require this pre-processing step, you should be able to convert even larger datasets.

The RDF output format also makes a difference in determining the total processing time.  Because of the way the statements are grouped in the output file, Turtle output takes much longer to produce than N-Triples output (for a given dataset, we've found that N-Triples can be generated in a little more than 10% of the time it takes to generate Turtle output).  So, for very large datasets, you will definitely want to choose N-Triples as the output format.