#summary What can I do with my RDF-formatted data?

= What can I do with my RDF-formatted data? =

Once you convert your data to RDF triples, you can use them in many different ways.  To start with, though, you might want to experiment with visualizing or querying your data.

If you want to visualize samples of your data, (up to 20-ish records), you can use simple graph visualization tools.  A good online tool is the [http://www.w3.org/RDF/Validator/ W3C RDF validator].  To use the RDF Validator, you will first need to convert your N-Triples or Turtle output to RDF/XML format using the [http://www.rdfabout.com/demo/validator/  RDF Validator and Convertor].  Another tool that you can use is the software package [http://graphviz.org/ GraphViz].  Select output format {{{"DOT (GraphViz)"}}} when triplifying your data.  You can also choose to [http://datamining.cs.ucla.edu/cgi-bin/dot2vue.cgi convert] your DOT graphviz file to the [http://vue.tufts.edu/ VUE (Visual Understanding Environment)] format which offers more functionality in manipulating the output.  Note that if you have more than a few data records, visualizing your data in GraphViz or VUE becomes difficult due to the density of nodes and edges in the output graphs. 

If you have more records, you can use  [http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-sparql-query/ SPARQL].  To use SPARQL, you will want to create a local "triplestore" in which you load all of your triplified data and run SPARQL queries.  Popular triplestores for RDF data are [http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/ Virtuoso], [http://franz.com/agraph/allegrograph/ AllegroGraph], [http://www.openrdf.org/ OpenRDF Sesame], or Jena's [http://jena.apache.org/documentation/serving_data/ Fuseki].  All of these datastores include SPARQL support, and they can also run queries that incorporate data from other semantic data stores such as [http://dbpedia.org/‎ DBpedia]. 

For further exploration, you can find more great tools listed [http://notes.3kbo.com/visual here].